{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Galatians 5:22-23 New International Version (NIV)\par
22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 23 gentleness and self-control. Against such things there is no law.\par
 \par
What Are the Fruit of the Spirit?\par
Kathy Howard\par
Author\par
 What Are the Fruit of the Spirit?\par
\ldblquote But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control. Against such things there is no law.\rdblquote  (Galatians 5:22-23)\par
\par
The Greek word translated \ldblquote fruit\rdblquote  refers to the natural product of a living thing. Paul used \ldblquote fruit\rdblquote  to help us understand the product of the Holy Spirit, who lives inside every believer. The fruit of the Spirit is produced by the Spirit, not by the Christian. The Greek word is singular, showing that \ldblquote fruit\rdblquote  is a unified whole, not independent characteristics. As we grow, all the characteristics of Christ will be manifested in our lives.\par
\par
Yet, like physical fruit needs time to grow, the fruit of the Spirit will not ripen in our lives overnight. Like a successful gardener must battle against weeds to enjoy the sweet fruit they desire, we must constantly work to rid our lives of the \ldblquote weeds\rdblquote  of our old sin natures that want to choke out the work of the Spirit. \par
\par
The Holy Spirit gives us the power we need to reject those old sinful desires. We can say \ldblquote no\rdblquote  to sin and accept the \ldblquote way out\rdblquote  God faithfully provides (1 Corinthians 10:13) by following the Holy Spirit\rquote s leading.  \par
\par
As we give the Spirit more control of our lives, He begins to do in and through us what only He can do - to shape us and grow us to look like Jesus (2 Corinthians 3:17-18).\par
\par
Since God\rquote s goal for all His children is for us to be like Jesus (Romans 8:29), the Holy Spirit constantly works to rid our lives of the \ldblquote acts of the sinful nature\rdblquote  (Gal 5:19) and display His fruit instead. Therefore, the presence of the \ldblquote fruit of the Spirit\rdblquote  is evidence that our character is becoming more like Christ\rquote s.\par
\par
Paul uses 9 characteristics to describe the fruit of the Spirit in the book of Galatians.\par
9 Characteristics:\par
Love\par
Joy\par
Peace\par
Patience\par
Kindness/Goodness\par
Faithfulness\par
Gentleness\par
Self-Control\par
Love\par
Love\par
True, biblical love is a choice, not a feeling. It deliberately expresses itself in loving ways and always seeks the welfare of others. Biblical love is dependent on the giver\rquote s character, not emotion. For instance, a mature believer demonstrating love will not exercise his or her freedom if that action might harm another Christian in some way. Rather than risking the possibility of causing the immature Christian to question and stumble, the mature believer will not exercise his freedom out of love for his brother (Romans 14:1-15). Love chooses to set aside one\rquote s own preferences, desires, and sometimes even needs to put the other person first (Philippians 2:1-3).\par
\par
Photo courtesy: \'a9Thinkstock/m-gucci\par
\par
\par
Joy\par
Joy\par
Sometimes we Christians tend to downplay the meaning of joy. But, the Greek word translated as \ldblquote joy\rdblquote  in Galatians 5 means \ldblquote gladness and delight\rdblquote  \f1\endash  basically the same thing the world means when it talks about joy. It is a feeling of gladness based on our circumstances. Sadly, the world\rquote s joy cannot last because it is based on fleeting, physical circumstances. But the joy of the Lord is established in our spiritual, eternal circumstances. As we cling tight to Jesus, abiding daily in our saving relationship with Him, we will experience the fullness of joy He promised (John 15:4-11).\par
\par
Photo courtesy: \f0\'a9Thinkstock/Vespie\par
\par
\par
Peace\par
Peace\par
The world doesn\rquote t offer much peace. Just look around. The world cannot give it because the world doesn\rquote t know the One who is peace. But for those who have the Spirit of peace within us, the peace of Christ is possible, no matter our circumstances (John 14:27). We can reject the chaos of the world and embrace God\rquote s peace. The book of Philippians tells us how (Philippians 4:4-9). First, choose to rejoice in God and who He is. Second, bring all your worries, fears, and concerns to God in prayer. Third, fill your mind with God\rquote s truth. And fourth, choose to think about the things of God.\par
\par
Photo courtesy: \'a9Thinkstock/Ingram Publishing\par
\par
\par
Patience\par
Patience\par
We don\rquote t see much patience in the world today, not even in the church. Maybe part of the reason is our fast-paced, want-it-now culture. But Christians have everything we need to be patient because we have the Holy Spirit living in us longing to display His character to those around us. Patient people put up with circumstances and other people, even when severely tried. Patient people display endurance, longsuffering, and perseverance. The New Testament also specifically connects patience with sharing the Gospel. God is patient as He waits for the lost to come to Him (2 Peter 3:9) and He calls His people to be patient as we extend the offer of salvation in Christ to others (2 Timothy 4:20).\par
\par
Photo courtesy: \'a9Thinkstock\par
\par
\par
Kindness and Goodness\par
Kindness and Goodness\par
The characteristics of \ldblquote kindness\rdblquote  and \ldblquote goodness\rdblquote  are closely related. Together they present the picture of one who not only possesses moral goodness and integrity, but also generously expresses it in the way they act toward others. This \ldblquote goodness in action\rdblquote  reflects God\rquote s kindness and goodness toward us. God demonstrated His kindness and goodness to us in our salvation (Titus 3:4) and will continue to \ldblquote show the immeasurable riches of His grace in kindness toward us\rdblquote  for all eternity (Ephesians 2:7)!\par
\par
Photo courtesy: \'a9Thinkstock/Kuzmichstudio\par
\par
\par
Faithfulness\par
Faithfulness\par
To be \ldblquote faithful\rdblquote  is to be reliable or trustworthy. For the Christian, this is faithfulness specifically to the Savior who redeemed us. Christian faithfulness therefore, is continued and consistent submission and obedience to the same Spirit who provides the ability for us to be faithful. This attitude is in direct contrast to our previous \ldblquote faithfulness\rdblquote  to our own sinful desires and ways. The word also describes someone willing to suffer persecution and even death for Christ\rquote s sake. \ldblquote Therefore, among God\rquote s churches we boast about your perseverance and faith in all the persecutions and trials you are enduring." (2 Thessalonians 1:4)\par
\par
Photo courtesy: \'a9Thinkstock/leolintang\par
\par
\par
Gentleness/Meekness\par
Gentleness/Meekness\par
Closely linked to humility, gentleness is grace of the soul. It is not weakness, but instead it is strength under control. For instance, in Paul\rquote s second letter to Timothy, he wrote that the \ldblquote Lord\rquote s servant\rdblquote  will \ldblquote correct his opponents with gentleness\rdblquote  (2 Timothy 2:25). And in Paul\rquote s letter to the church in Galatia, he wrote that those who have been caught in sin should be restored in a \ldblquote spirit of gentleness\rdblquote  (Galatians 6:1). Gentleness, being the opposite of self-assertiveness and self-interest, is also a key ingredient in unity and peace within the body of Christ (Ephesians 4:2).\par
\par
Photo courtesy: \'a9Thinkstock\par
\par
\par
Self-Control\par
Self-Control\par
The last characteristic in Paul\rquote s description of the fruit of the Spirit points us back to his list of the \ldblquote works of the flesh\rdblquote  in Galatians 5:19-21. Those of us with the indwelling Holy Spirit has the strength to control our sinful desires, to say \ldblquote no\rdblquote  to our flesh. Self-control gives us the power to say \ldblquote yes\rdblquote  to the Spirit and foster a beautiful, bountiful harvest of spiritual fruit!\par
\par
\par
}
 